What works well is that the trainer class is written well, which has these helper functions like load_data, train, evaluate which helps write cleaner code by accessing this class. The checkpointing of best model works well and in our facour to save the best-performing epoch's weight rather than the final weight and saving metrics to JSON is good practice to have artifact persistence of some kind.

What's wrong is that the model architecture is defined inside the trainer.py which makes it harder for the team to use the same trainer.py to load and compare multiple model architectures. It's the same with the DataLoader (Dataset) class as well which is catered to this particular protien fitness data it makes it harder to scale. For the trainer there is no random seed set which would give different results every time which is bad for having reproducible results. The train split having the first 80% values without shuffling is bad design choice since it could bias the model based on some pre defined order in the dataset. The model artifacts are hardcoded meaning two researchers running the model will get atleast one of their file overwritten. The hyperparameters are hardcoded which makes it difficult to scale having them in some config files is the way to go. Also the test data split is being used to select the best model and the final evaluation is done on the same test dataset, which seems like a data leakage problem, where as train-test-val split seems like the right choice here.

What I would change to make it better is, I would start restructuring by abstracting out the models and dataloader, and just import them in trainer.py and have a config file which loads models, data and hyperparameters and we have version these config files and have different owner for collaboration. I would also save the model artifacts in their own directories along with the runs_name from config file differentitating between models/data. Obviously have a random seed wherever randomness is used to have reproducibility, have some kind of registry pattern to register models and dataloaders so it can be plug and play with our trainer. To tracks different experiements I would have a another script that checks for model artifacts directories and compare data inside.
